#  A Boy from Dublin
        
"Give peace a chance, not shoot people for peace. All we need is love. I believe it."

I was singing on the stage in my home town Dublin, when I first felt it. A sudden pain in my stomach and no sooner that I felt it, I was on the ground. My legs refused to move and I could smell the warm metallic smell of blood from my jacket.The crowd had gone wild. Stunned. The chants of " Johnny Johnny " were now incoherent. I was warned that it wasn't safe to come back home but I hadn't been to the place in the last ten years. Time to come back to the city where I had spent the first twenty years of my life, the city closest to my heart. After all, it was Dublin that made me what I am today. The city that gave birth to me might also make it all come to an end.

The next thing I remember is the blaring lights, the urgency in the voices of people around me. "Don't worry Johnny! You are going to be alright!" said the person in the ambulance. I could still feel the dull ache in my stomach, I was rushed to the hospital.I looked at the watch which had been with me for the past twenty years, working only for the first ten.I waited for my wife Ono to arrive. Memories of my life rushed to my mind as I was laid down on the hospital bed. Dublin came back to my mind. Dublin. 

We lived across the North Richmond Street in Dublin, a quiet street except at the hour when the Christian Brothers’ School set the boys free.The cold air of Dubline stung us and we played till our bodies glowed. Our shouts echoed in the silent street. I used to hide in the shadow if Mangan’s sister came out on the doorstep to call her brother in to his tea. Ono's dress swung as she moved her body and the soft rope of her hair tossed from side to side. I had never spoken to her, except for a few casual words, and yet her name was like a summons to all my foolish blood. I was a bit scared to talk to her, unsure of whether I should do what I have always wanted to do. That changed on a dark rainy evening. There was no sound in the house. I heard the rain impinge upon the earth, the fine incessant needles of water playing in the sodden beds. At last Ono spoke to me. When she addressed the firstwords to me I was so confused that I did not know what to answer. She asked me if I was going to Araby. I forgot whether I answered yes or no. It would be a splendid bazaar, she said she would love to go.‘And why can’t you?’ I asked.‘It’s well for you Johnny,’ she said. "Johnny", no one had called me "Johnny" until that moment but somehow it has stuck with me since then. ‘If I go,’ I said, ‘I will bring you something.’

What happened in the next few days completely changed my life, a simple set of moments which I had never thought would change my life so dramatically. I used to live with my Uncle and Aunt. I conveyed my desire to my Uncle and he said he would give me money to go to the bazaar. As the day passed, I sat staring at the clock for some time and. When its ticking began to irritate me, I looked over at the dark house where she lived. My Aunt looked at me and realised that I was really eager to go to the bazaar. Looking at my impatient figure, she decided to help me, " John, I see that you are really eager to go to Araby. So instead of waiting for your uncle, take the money from me and go to the bazaar. Don't forget to buy yourself a watch." "It's a gift from me", she seemed out of breath then but I ignored it as I wanted to go to Araby as quickly as I could. I rushed to the streets and took my seat in a third-class carriage of a deserted train. After an intolerable delay the train moved out of the station slowly. It crept onward among ruinous houses and over the twinkling river. At Westland Row Station a crowd of people pressed to the carriage doors; but the porters moved them back, saying that it was a special train for the bazaar. I remained alone in the bare carriage.I passed out onto the road and saw by the lighted dial of a clock that it was ten minutes to ten. In front of me was a large building which displayed the magical name.

I found myself in a big hall girdled at half its height by a gallery. Nearly all the stalls were closed and the greater part of the hall was in darkness. I recognised a silence like that which pervades a church after a service. I walked into the centre of the bazaar timidly as I saw the upper part of the hall was now completely dark.I heard people in the bazaar gossip about how their sales had gone really bad since the war. It was as if the  city of Dublin had lost their ability to realise their dreams. But between all of this chaos, I observed two lights shining, one of a young person playing his music to the crowd in the bazaar and another of a really young mother. I went to the store of the young mother who was taking care of her baby while selling watches. The young mother was a widow who had lost her husband to an accident.There were leather watches in her store, mostly all brown in color, except one. That watch had a blue belt, like the infinite sky. The blue belt of the watch combined with the young person playing his music on the guitar gave me a sense of power that I can achieve my desires despite whatever other people around me say. I bought the watch for myself and a purse for Ono and thanked the young mother.
I was returning back home enthusiastically, eager to hug my Aunt for her help as it wouldn't have been possible without her. While I was away, I came to know that she suffered from a heart attack and had passed away. This was a huge blow for me. It shattered me into pieces and changed my perspective of the world. Few days passed, and I was thinking about my Aunt, what she meant to me, and it struck me that she was one of the few people in Dublin I had seen who still had the ability to dream and pass it onto others. 

I questioned the nature of Dublin and it's people, and got to the answer that there were two Dublins. One, made of the majority of people, including his Uncle and the people at the bazaar, who had seemed to give up on changing things in their lives. It seemed that the majority of Dublin thought that Life is just a game of chance and luck, where you are given fixed roles and cannot change much around. It wasn't that Dublin was afraid of chasing their dreams, but that it suffered from a fear of losing what they had while chasing those dreams. The second kind was a Dublin made of special people, who thought that Life is short and precious, not a game of chance, that one could nurture their lives by dreaming and working hard. My aunt, the person playing the guitar who despite all people in the bazaar shutting their shops continued playing the guitar and the young mother who sold me the watch which I still have on my wrist showed me this magical side of Dublin. I had a choice, to pick between these two Dublins and I chose the second one. So I did. I worked really hard over the years practicing guitar and making songs for the people of Dublin. They grew popular slowly around Dublin and in the blink of an eye, I was known as Johnny Lennon around the whole country of Ireland. Through my music, I showed the whole world the Dublin which my Aunt saw, the Dublin of dreamers. I went for it all the way and got really lucky as I got to marry my childhood sweetheart Ono, Mangan's sister. 

(*Ono arrives*) Memories of Dublin put a smile on my face despite being shot in the stomach. I knew I didn't have a lot of time left, so I decided to give Ono a kiss and told my Manager Mangan to record my last words. 
"I did all right for a boy from Dublin, didn't I? "

 To the people of Dublin, I say, 

    You may say I am a dreamer, but I am not the only one
    If you’re going to try, go all the way.
    Otherwise, don’t even start.
    This could mean losing girlfriends, wives, relatives and maybe even your mind.
    It could mean not eating for three or four days.
    It could mean freezing on a park bench.
    It could mean jail.
    It could mean derision.
    It could mean mockery — isolation.
    Isolation is the gift.
    All the others are a test of your endurance, of how much you really want to do it.
    And, you’ll do it, despite rejection and the worst odds.
    And it will be better than anything else you can imagine.
    If you’re going to try, go all the way.
    There is no other feeling like that.
    You will be alone with the gods, and the nights will flame with fire.
    You will ride life straight to perfect laughter.
    It’s the only good fight there is.
    
Go all the way - by Charles Bukowski

Indraneel Deshpande 
